---
title:  "Link Roundup: October 8, 2024"
date:   2024-10-08 2:58:00 -0500
summary: Book reviews and article writeups for the week. 
tags:
    - artificial intelligence
---

Hey it's a roundup! I haven't done one in a few weeks because, well,
I've been writing. If you haven\'t already,
[check](/posts/2024/09/i-dont-know-what-to-do-about-ai-and-neither-do-you)
out [some](/posts/2024/09/cannon-shot-epistemology) of my recent
[posts](/posts/2024/09/the-ignorant-schoolmaster-five-lessons-in-intellectual-emancipation-a-review).

This week, I have some short book reviews and two typical article
write-ups. Writing book reviews is new for me, I usually just enter
notes into my extraordinarily complex note-taking system that,
nonetheless, somehow works for me. I won't always post them here, so
feel free to check out my Goodreads where I will (hope to) be continuing
to post reviews.

As always, I generate summaries for the articles using AI and edit those
summaries for accuracy and usefulness. Then, I offer some thoughts of my
own.

## Anna Kornbluh, *Immedacy: Or, The Style of Too Late Capitalism*

### Short Review

Kornbluh\'s diagnosis seems correct. Across domains\--writing, video,
theory\--there really does seem to be a resistance to anything that
doesn\'t come neatly packaged, ready to consume. And much of supposedly
"radical" thought is radical in style only, failing to take any sort of
stance or "draw lines." To exist in academic spaces is to see immediacy
style, daily. I am persuaded and fully on board.

That said, I wished, at times, that Kornbluh would draw more lines of
her own. To be clear, I\'m not taking up the lazy perspective that a
text fails to enact its own argument. Largely, Kornbluh's does. But her
insistence on the connection of the literary, and mediation broadly, to
political practice seems wedded to an assumption of the importance of
the humanities in a world where that importance has been radically
diminished. In a sense, this isn\'t even a critique of Kornbluh, because
I agree with her values. Mediation is necessary, and she has convinced
me of the ways that it is under attack. I just wish that there was a bit
less attention to how immediacy affects things like Safdie films, and
more on how it affects labor conditions within the university, for
example. Both topics are there, the balance just seems off. But maybe
(honestly) this desire reflects my own investments in the \"immediacy\"
of the useful. In any case, the book is well-argued, persuasive, and
worth reading.

## Ursula K. Le Guin, *The Lathe of Heaven*

### Short Review (Spoilers)

Equal parts fantastical and tragic, The Lathe of Heaven is my favorite
Le Guin\'s novel I\'ve read so far. Among its many themes, one stood out
as particularly significant and ahead of its time. Toward the end of the
novel, Orr is unable to keep track of the various realities affected by
his dreams. "He was living almost as a young child, among actualities
only. He was surprised by nothing, and by everything." How did Le Guin
blow so effortlessly past postmodernism, perfectly capturing the
post-postmodern regression, the complete capitulation to the flow, that
we see today?

## Robin K. Hill, "Do All Problems Have Technical Fixes?"

[Link to
Article](https://cacm.acm.org/article/do-all-problems-have-technical-fixes/)

### Generated Summary (ChatGPT)

The article critiques "tech solutionism," the belief that all problems
can be fixed with technology. It highlights how this attitude, common in
Silicon Valley, often ignores non-technical aspects of issues and
reduces them to problems that require technical fixes. The author
questions the reasoning behind this, suggesting that it\'s more about a
pro-technology attitude than thoughtful logic. The article also raises
concerns about the normative value placed on technology and the
assumption that it\'s inherently good, without deeper examination of its
broader societal impact.

### My Thoughts

Speaking of *The Lathe of Heaven*... Hill here does an excellent job
capturing and considering a strange phenomenon: technologists' strange
inability to grok the idea that technology for technology's sake might
be flawed reasoning. She summarizes this perspective well:

> The unspoken foundational claim is not that computing technology
> confers certain benefits, a pragmatic claim, and a matter of fact, but
> that it carries normative value, that it's good; in particular, our
> tech is good, and therefore should be out there in the world.

I tend to take the stance of the "ungenerous critic" she describes.
(*Just how generous does criticism need to be, everybody?*) I'll let you
read the article beyond that; it's worth it.

## Julie Bort, "Y Combinator is being criticized after it backed an AI startup that admits it basically cloned another AI startup**"**

[Link to
Article](https://techcrunch.com/2024/09/30/y-combinator-is-being-criticized-after-it-backed-an-ai-startup-that-admits-it-basically-cloned-another-ai-startup/?guccounter=1&guce_referrer=aHR0cHM6Ly9hcHAucmFpbmRyb3AuaW8v&guce_referrer_sig=AQAAAKHhRg50G1brpS1PRn8Vr0VkLdrIjjwOMDvvalkz4qZFoMOrAlIbu5u7vC8WjMsxosX2BmAj7AKBrba6enuy263CggyR_hjNThjtwHcBXcxmIfVvxcvFL14QXc4-v_OkaJq5h47n25A_NfGfL9DPl925ZVHiSz9_pUTwzk8yrcFP)

### Generated Summary (ChatGPT)

Y Combinator has come under fire for backing PearAI, an AI startup
accused of cloning another AI project, Continue. PearAI\'s founder, Duke
Pan, initially implemented a proprietary license, which drew criticism
from the open-source community as it deviated from Continue\'s original
Apache license. After backlash, PearAI reverted to the open-source
license, but the controversy sparked widespread discussions about Y
Combinator\'s diligence and selection criteria. Critics have also raised
concerns about the lack of innovation in PearAI and Y Combinator's
tendency to fund similar AI venturesâ€‹.

### My Thoughts

The dumbest and most predictable type of shit imaginable. Whatever the
future holds for AI, one thing is clear: the ways that people are trying
to capitalize on it, whether in the tech sector or higher ed, is really,
really stupid.
