---
layout: single
title:  "Memory, Document, Archive"
date:   2021-11-26 16:08:22 -0500
published: true
tags:
  - Media Studies

---

The role of memory is central to the humanities. The ability to recall
the past in the present points to something fundamental about human
consciousness: a capability to weigh decisions in terms of the past. In
this way, memory--especially *public* memory--is not only salient but
fundamental to politics.

The document, as a historical genre and media form, is mired in
considerations related to memory. All documents, at their root, exist to
externalize aspects of human memory and present it epistemically: what
Lisa Gitelman refers to as their "know-show" function (Gitelman 2014).
Documents, then, are:

1.  Fundamentally social and publicly-oriented.
2.  Largely concerned with the transmission of memory.
3.  Epistemic, in that their primary aim is to not only store but
    transmit knowledge. Crucially, this transmission is typically
    *motivated and rhetorical.*

Regarding point three: one of the most global effects of documentation
is their role in the establishment and maintenance of empires. Trouillot
(2015), for example, has argued that archival erasures help to create
history in favor of empires. Ann Laura Stoler (2009), additionally, has
discussed the role in archival documents during King Leopold's genocide
in the Congo. Memory, in these contexts, is materially constructed by
way of archived documents in order to establish and maintain
transnational oppression.

This realization has led to shifts within the archival sciences over the
last several decades. Archives and archivists have often taken on an
ethos of impartiality, but recent scholarship and developments in
archival science have challenged that impartiality. Archivists have
begun to critically examine their own roles in the production of history
and their own social responsibilities toward knowledge, history, and
power. (Blouin 1999; Wallace 2011; Light and Hyry 2002).

By collecting and categorizing historical artifacts, which affects
artifacts' reception by scholars and by the public, archives exert power
over the historical record. Archivists, however, exist within
complicated institutional and ideological settings, and therefore do not
have full control over the way their archives present historical
records. It is the role of the researcher, then, to consider the archive
not as a stable site of historical "discovery" but rather as a motivated
and rhetorical construction.

## References

Blouin, Francis X. 1999. "Archivists, Mediation, and Constructs of
Social Memory." *Archival Issues* 24 (2): 101--12.


Gitelman, Lisa. 2014. *Paper Knowledge: Toward a Media History of
Documents*. Durham ; London: Duke University Press.


Light, Michelle, and Tom Hyry. 2002. "Colophons and Annotations: New
Directions for the Finding Aid." *The American Archivist* 65 (2):
216--30.

Stoler, Ann Laura. 2009. *Along the Archival Grain: Epistemic Anxieties
and Colonial Common Sense*. Book, Whole. Princeton, New Jersey:
Princeton University Press. <https://go.exlibris.link/jdn062z8>.

Trouillot, Michel-Rolph, and Hazel V. Carby. 2015. *Silencing the Past:
Power and the Production of History*. Book, Whole. Boston,
Massachusetts: Beacon Press. <https://go.exlibris.link/C7ppvR7q>.

Wallace, David A. 2011. "Introduction: Memory Ethics---or the Presence
of the Past in the Present." *Archival Science* 11 (1): 1--12.
<https://doi.org/10.1007/s10502-011-9140-7>.
