+++
title = "What is Genre?"
author = ["Rick Wysocki"]
date = 2022-06-21T16:25:00-04:00
tags = ["genre"]
draft = false
summary = "Here is my post summary."
+++

|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| layout: single title: "What is Genre?" date: 2022-06-21 16:08:22 -0500 summary: A concept that is has been popping up in recent posts is genre. It's not surprising, as genre is central not only to film--increasingly, the focus of this blog--but to rhetoric and writing studies, my academic home. But what _is_ genre? published: true featured_image: featured.jpg featured_alt: A photo of Spotify's genre playlist interface. tags: - Genre summary: A concept that is has been popping up in recent posts is genre. It's not surprising, as genre is central not only to film--increasingly, the focus of this blog--but to rhetoric and writing studies, my academic home. But what _is_ genre? |

A concept that has been popping up in recent posts is genre. It's not
surprising, as genre is central not only to film--one of my main
interests--but to rhetoric and writing studies, my academic field. But
what _is_ genre?

Like most concepts that are obvious and apparent to the general public,
genre has been complexified by academics in ways both productive and
unproductive. Readers of other posts have likely noticed my skepticism
toward academic discourse. But this skepticism has less to do with the
common criticisms of overly-fancified writing and more to do with the
circulation (or lack thereof) of said writing. I am, as it is sometimes
pejoratively called in the academy, a "theory bro," but only because I
think theory has something to offer, not because I think it's the way
toward a rewarding academic career. To offer something, though, ideas
need to circulate.

So, this post will take a "beginner's mind" approach to the concept of
genre. I'll start with an idea that seems simple and discuss its value
in understanding texts, art, and cultural production.

My overall point: Genre is a method of classification.

We all have a sense of what classifications are. It's a nice word for
sorting stuff. When we look at our books and weigh whether to sort them
by author, by title, or by color, we're considering classifications.
When we listen to RapCaviar on Spotify, we assume that the songs all fit
our classification scheme for rap. When we think about what movie we
want to go see in the theaters, classifications like "horror," "action,"
and "romance" help us make decisions about which film to choose.

Often, we take classifications at face value. It would be somewhat
taxing, every time we put on a movie, to first go and research all of
the different decisions that went into classifying it. Yet, this work is
a necessary part of classifying. As Geoffrey C. Bowker and Susan Leigh
Star pointed out, classifications are invisible until people start
arguing about them (Bowker and Star 2).

It's easier to simply accept that we know what Hip-Hop is until Drake
puts out _Honestly, Nevermind_ and everyone notices that it's a House
album. But it's on RapCaviar. And it's a central focus of Hip-Hop media.
If you look online, there are a lot of arguments not only about whether
the album is good, but what it is. The classification, the genre, has
become contentious.

But genres aren't _exactly_ the same as classifications. They're
different words, after all. Honestly, though, I find it difficult to
sort out the two terms. In popular use, genres are clearly used to parse
classifications of art. Musical genres, film genres, and literary genres
seem like the most familiar employments of the term--maybe in that
order.

But, as always, scholars have made the term more complex. And, as
always, this has positives and negatives. In rhetoric and writing
studies, a broad overview would reveal genres as ways to classify
different types of communication--both oral and written.

Carolyn Miller, arguably the definitional figure in what's been termed
rhetorical genre studies (or, sometimes North American genre studies),
claimed that genres are better understood as a way we "do things" with
our communication. We rely on our knowledge of genre when we write, say,
a workplace memo in order to make that memo successful. One of the
examples I use for my students is asking them to consider appealing to
their boss for a raise, but instead of a formal letter, writing them a
poem. The content could be exactly the same, but if it were written in
stanzas, it would break the boss's genre expectations, which depend on a
range of contextual factors in the workplace. The classification would
become contentious.

Miller argues that genres aren't just taxonomies but ways of analyzing
communications based on audiences and contexts (49). I agree, though I
sometimes feel that her perspective underemphasizes the ways that genres
are _used_ in taxonomic ways. Understanding genre relies on a sort of
taxonomic fantasy: we know that every horror movie will be different,
but we have an imagined sense that all horror movies share "something"
that ties them all together. This something may be a set of shared
features or a prototype example (Bowker and Star 62-63), but genres (and
classifications generally) are like asymptotes: they can approach a
coherent "grouping"--and be highly useful as they do--but never fully
achieve it. Something will always "slip out" of the genre; difference
will always emerge.

What is decidedly not fantastical, though, is that industry practices
absolutely rely on the audience's expectations for coherent genres.
Further, those same practices also produce those expectations. Consider
two ways of looking at film genres offered by Rick Altman.

1.  Critics will usually _begin with an awareness of an already existing
    genre_, think about which films are _already discussed as examples of
    this genre_, and analyze their shared features. This perspective may
    be interesting, but it doesn't actually explain much about where the
    genre comes from in the first place. It leaves out the _work_ of how
    the classification came to be.

2.  By contrast, producers _begin with an already successful film._ They
    say to themselves: "Hey, I would like to make more of that sweet,
    sweet money." They replicate aspects of the film that were
    well-received in new productions, gradually building up the
    audience's expectations for repeated motifs, themes, and formulas
    across films. Eventually, a classification emerges in the form of a
    genre to market these films, usually branching out from an
    already-existing genre (Altman 38). The genre classification, from
    this perspective, is a result of both the work of industrial
    practices and the emerging audience expectations. The fantasy of
    taxonomy emerges at the end of this process a market for the film
    industry.

Obviously, genres are useful. They help us make decisions about films to
see, about books to read, about music to listen to, etc. Yet, as much
scholarship has tried to point out, looking at their histories forces us
to consider just how "objective" a genre classification could ever be.
Beyond academic discourse, why is this useful or interesting? I'll offer
a few points in relation to film.

-   Making genre classifications contentious can help us see when
    individual films are doing something interesting or different within
    their _own_ marketed genres, as I discussed in
    [my recent post on _Men_.](/posts/2022-06-05-men/)
-   We can better understand how our own perspectives on genres have been
    shaped by our film experiences and how we (often unconsciously)
    classify films based on those experiences. We can take this both in
    terms of how industries have shaped our ideological expectations AND
    as a way of pointing out just how rich and diverse the history of film
    truly is. [We don't have
    to choose.](/posts/2022-06-09/heroes-ritual-ideology/)
-   Finally, and this certainly deserves its own post in the future, the
    history of genre classifications is often, itself, the content of
    films, and a better understanding of genre can enrich our appreciation
    of those films.

---


## Works Cited {#works-cited}

-   Altman, Rick. Film/Genre. Palgrave Macmillan, 1999.
-   Bowker, Geoffrey C., and Susan Leigh Star. Sorting Things Out. MIT
    P, 1999.
-   Miller, Carolyn R. "Genre as Social Action." Landmark Essays on
    Rhetorical Genre Studies, edited by Carolyn R Miller and Amy J.
    Devitt, Routledge, 2019, pp.Â 36--54.
