+++
title = "Link Roundup: July 22, 2024"
author = ["Rick Wysocki"]
date = 2024-07-22T00:00:00-04:00
draft = false
summary = "Here is my post summary."
+++

This week's roundup has articles on cognitive empathy, kimchi, and
technical writing workflows.

As always, I generate summaries using AI and edit those summaries for
accuracy and usefulness. Then, I offer some thoughts of my own.


## Robert Wright, "Ode to a world-saving idea" {#robert-wright-ode-to-a-world-saving-idea}

[Link to
Article](https://nonzero.substack.com/p/ode-to-a-world-saving-idea-f4b)


### Generated Summary (ChatGPT) {#generated-summary-chatgpt}

The article is a reflection on the legacy of psychologist Lee Ross,
focusing on his concept of the "fundamental attribution error." This
idea highlights the human tendency to attribute others' behaviors to
their character rather than their circumstances. The article explains
that while initially considered a simple concept, it evolved into a more
nuanced understanding that varies depending on one's relationships and
biases. The fundamental attribution error has significant implications
for interpersonal and international relations, often reinforcing
tribalism and conflict. The author emphasizes the importance of
cognitive empathy--understanding others' perspectives--as a tool for
resolving conflicts and solving global problems. Ross's insights suggest
that awareness and cultivation of cognitive empathy can mitigate the
harmful effects of attribution error, contributing to a more
understanding and cooperative world.


### My Thoughts {#my-thoughts}

While I don't agree with Robert Wright on everything, I always find his
ideas interesting and offered in good faith. This article is great and
provides an excellent heuristic for increasing one's capacity for a good
faith engagement with others and with the world. The trickiness of how
we associate a person's actions with their character rather than with
their situation (attribution error) mainly when we dislike them is
obvious when brought into consciousness but still requires practice to
overcome. Just to promote Wright a bit further, his book
[_Why
Buddhism is True_](https://www.amazon.com/Why-Buddhism-True-Philosophy-Enlightenment/dp/1439195455) is a good starting point for that practice,
especially for those primarily interested in secular Buddhism. (I would
be remiss not to note that secular Buddhism is a contested and sometimes
controversial term/field.)


## Hahna Yoon, "The Kimchi Masters of South Korea Can Teach You a Thing {#hahna-yoon-the-kimchi-masters-of-south-korea-can-teach-you-a-thing}

or Two"

:CUSTOM_ID: hahna-yoon-the-kimchi-masters-of-south-korea-can-teach-you-a-thing-or-two

[Link
to Article](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/07/16/dining/south-korea-kimchi-masters.html)


### Generated Summary (ChatGPT) {#generated-summary-chatgpt-1}

South Korea's Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Rural Affairs has
designated five individuals as Korean Food Grand Masters for their
excellence in kimchi making. These masters, including a former pop
singer and a YouTuber, emphasize the importance of using high-quality
ingredients and traditional methods. They express concerns about the
rise of mass-produced kimchi, stressing that authentic kimchi requires
patience and dedication. Each master has a unique approach and recipe,
such as seafood kimchi, white kimchi, and stuffed white kimchi,
reflecting their personal histories and the cultural significance of
this traditional Korean dish.


### My Thoughts {#my-thoughts-1}

I'm fairly certain I haven't written about my love of making kimchi, but
I am very passionate about the Korean art of fermented
cabbage/vegetables/seafood/everything else. I often get asked if I've
spent time in South Korea, have a particular family connection, or if
there is some other reason for my love of making kimchi. The answer to
all those is no. (I have spent time learning the Korean language, though
am still very much a beginner). I just loved all of the delicious
kimchis I had access to when I lived in Southern California. Living in
Indiana, I'm sad to say, offers no such access.

{{&lt; figure src="kimchi.jpeg" alt="A photo of my kimchi." caption="I'm
into this kimchi thing."&gt;}}

In any case, the comments from these South Korean kimchi masters will
ring true to anyone who has deep-dived into kimchi blogs and books and
pored over the ingredients in a Korean market with their phone out to
translate the labels. While I would never put myself on the same level
as with these kimchi masters (or an 아줌마, for that matter), it is very
clear that kimchi is an activity that awards precision and patience.


## Google, "Import and export Markdown in Google Docs" {#google-import-and-export-markdown-in-google-docs}

[Link
to Article](https://workspaceupdates.googleblog.com/2024/07/import-and-export-markdown-in-google-docs.html)


## Generated Summary {#generated-summary}

Google Docs now supports importing and exporting Markdown. New features
include converting Markdown to Docs on paste, copying Docs content as
Markdown, and exporting/importing Docs as Markdown. These updates
benefit technical writers, enabling seamless content conversion between
Google Docs and other Markdown tools. The features are available by
default for all users, with "Copy as Markdown" and "Paste from Markdown"
options enabled in Docs preferences. The rollout begins on July 16,
2024, and will be available to all Google Workspace customers and
individual subscribers.


## My Thoughts {#my-thoughts-2}

This is, admittedly, not so much an article as an update from Google.
That said, I am **so excited** by this update. I don't use Google
Drive/Docs much, aside from keeping my weight-lifting spreadsheets to
reference them easily at the gym. (Now that I have a gym in my garage,
that seems less necessary...) The **only** writing tools I enjoy using are
Microsoft Word (writing a doctoral dissertation in the humanities will
do that to you) and Markdown. I use many other tools in my writing
workflow (Pandoc is **major**) but if we're talking about the _writing
itself_, it's .docx or .md for me.

{{&lt; figure src="wayne.jpg" alt="A photo of Wayne from the TV show
Letterkenny." caption="It'll be .docx and .md, for me."&gt;}}

And yet, it feels like everyone else uses Google Docs. This is
understandable and there are lots of good reasons why people love it. I
have my own bones to pick with Docs, which maybe I'll write about
someday, but it's undeniably useful for many.

And that's why this update feels so amazing! It's going to offer a
really easy way to integrate non-Markdown writers into Markdown
workflows. Finally, I'll be able to make the argument to folks I work
with that we can use integrate interesting and useful Markdown-based
tools and workflows (like [Hugo](/tags/hugo)) without writers having
to change much, if anything, about their writing process. That's the
dream, anyway. :smiley:
