---
title:  "Link Roundup: July 1, 2024"
date:   2024-07-01 9:00:00 -0500
summary: A link roundup including my thoughts on Steven Peck's A Short Stay in Hell, storytelling for UX design, and the importance of document version control.
featured_image: featured.jpg
featured_alt: A neon sign reading â€œWhat is Your Story"
published: true
comments: true
featured_post: true
tags:
    - link roundup
---

Here are a few interesting reads for the week. The first is my own
write-up on Steven Peck's excellent horror novella *A Short Stay in
Hell*. The other two deal with my more typical subject matter, focusing
on storytelling for UX design and document version control.

As always, I generate summaries using AI and edit those summaries for
accuracy and usefulness. Then, I offer some thoughts of my own.

# Rick Wysocki, "Text and Meaning in *A Short Stay in Hell*"

[Link to Article](/posts/2024/06/text-and-meaning-in-a-short-stay-in-hell/)

## Generated Summary (ChatGPT)

This analysis of Steven Peck's *A Short Stay in Hell* explores its
unique depiction of Hell as a vast library where souls must find a book
that perfectly describes their life to escape. Unlike traditional
portrayals of Hell, this one emphasizes the existential horror of
endless possibilities and the psychological torment of a seemingly
achievable yet elusive goal. The novella contrasts the despair of
searching for meaning with the fleeting happiness of abandoning the
quest. Wysocki notes parallels to Sartre\'s *No Exit* and a *Twilight
Zone* episode.

## Generated Summary (ChatGPT)

It seems silly to offer more thoughts, given that the post is full of
them. I can at least add a brief postscript.

There is more to the novella than the horror. Read through the lens of
Zen/mindfulness, *A Short Stay in Hell* gives insight into where our
attention should rest to achieve happiness and on our obligations to
others. How much of this was Peck's intention? I'm not sure. But, as we
in the humanities assert (sometimes too strongly and frequently
inconsistently), [it's not always about the
author](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Death_of_the_Author).

# Shiva,"Unlocking emotion and engagement: Storytelling techniques in UX design"

[Link to
Article](https://bootcamp.uxdesign.cc/unlocking-emotion-and-engagement-storytelling-techniques-in-ux-design-855afb9cecdf)

## Generated Summary (ChatGPT)

The article highlights the importance of storytelling in UX design,
emphasizing its role in creating engaging and meaningful user
experiences by conveying the purpose and value of a product, evoking
empathy, and guiding users through their journey. It explains how
stories help designers empathize with users, present design ideas more
effectively, and make research insights more relatable. The **Story
Spine** structure, popularized by Pixar and Disney, is recommended for
organizing narratives, comprising stages like setting context,
introducing a twist, and resolving the story. Examples illustrate how
this structure can be applied in UX presentations, showing its
effectiveness in connecting deeply with users and enhancing the impact
of design work.

## My Thoughts

This article picks up a theme present in the links I shared from [Vicky
Zhao/Ian Daniel Stewart a few weeks ago](/posts/2024/06/link-roundup-june-17-2024/): the importance of
**storytelling**. As a writer, storytelling is, of course, near and dear
to me. As a teacher, it is something that I try to instill in each of my
students, whether they are professional/technical writers or students in a
First-Year Writing course.

This article's value lies in how it argues for storytelling in UX
design. Moreover, it offers lots of clear examples of how one
storytelling structure (The Story Spine) can be used in design contexts.

The author provides a few answers to why stories matter in UX design. I
can't help noting how they nearly exactly map onto rhetorical concepts.
Why Stories?

-   To understand and empathize with users. (Research.)
-   To present design ideas.
    ([Genre](/tags/genre/), invention, and
    delivery.)
-   To share insights in a memorable format. (Circulation and
    mnemonics.)

# Elmira/ClickHelp, "Importance of Document Version Control in Technical Writing"

[Link to
Article](https://clickhelp.com/clickhelp-technical-writing-blog/importance-of-document-version-control-in-technical-writing/)

## Generated Summary (ChatGPT)

Document version control is crucial in technical writing to manage
different document versions, ensuring consistency and preventing errors.
It involves naming conventions, centralized collaboration, and tracking
changes. Best practices include standardized file naming, version
suffixes, and synchronized work on a single document to avoid confusion
and improve efficiency. Implementing version control enhances team
communication, prevents accidental overwriting, and maintains compliance
with industry standards, ultimately saving time and resources. Automated
tools further streamline this process by creating and managing versions
efficiently.

## My Thoughts

This is a great article on the importance of version control for
technical writing and, honestly, for writers in general. It provides a
succinct definition of version control ("tracking and managing different
versions of a document to ensure users can identify the current
version") and doesn't assume high-tech solutions like Git. This
simplicity makes the argument persuasive for multiple audiences,
regardless of technical knowledge. I could see this being a valuable
resource for teaching or even for persuading co-workers to adopt a
version control protocol.
